Four important recent works of blasphemy and heresy forming the cornerstones of the growing Humanist Subversion.
1. Principia Arcanum Hesiod Isshal Walden (Lord's University undergraduate)
The Principia is a logical, philosophical, mathematical, and scientific analysis of the principles of the Arcane, Divine and Ancient practices of magic in relation to the observable natural world. This work was Walden's undergraduate thesis, presented to the fellows of the College of Mathematicians at Lords University when he was just 22 years old. Its contents and theories are far removed from accepted dogma regarding the nature of how the world was formed, how it functions, how magic interacts with the world, and what the origin and explanations for the existence of magic are. It is a work of such complexity and far-reaching implications that it is said that fewer than a dozen people alive today are capable of understanding even part of what Walden has theorised. For his efforts, Walden was expelled from the university without obtaining his degree, tried and sentenced as a heretic by the Eccumenical Courts, and exiled from the city to the borderlands. The Principia has subsequently been published by an unknown group and widely circulated among the academics of the university. Since few truly understand the ideas and concepts that Walden wrote about, there have emerged many misconceptions and misunderstandings regarding Walden's theories. However it has taken its place as the first work in what has been termed "The Humanist Movement" (or "Humanist Subversion".) The Principia is a key work dealing with the scientific observations of the mechanics of both magic and the world as a whole.
2. Manhood in the Age of Ages: a manual of behaviour, composure and etiquette for the modern courtier
Lord Benjamin Ralston (nephew and heir to the Duke of Sarnstone)
Lord Ralston's self-published work was initially expected to be no more than a superficial treatise on the ancient etiquette of the upper classes. It turned out to be, however, a revolutionary manifesto about the nature and possibilites of a secular humanity. Far from limiting itself to courtly manners, Age of Ages deals with the philosophical concept of the ideal Man and his place in the world. It is highly critical of the established government and religion, and brings forth the concept of a Humanist approach to existence. In many ways, Lord Ralston's book is more a manual for creating a new, primarily secular, society based on reason and philosophy than it is a treatise on etiquette. Age of Ages, originally dismissed as a vanity publication by a foppish aristocrat, has become the seminal work of the Humanist movement and the most detailed and intelligent treatise on the philosophical nature of human existence. Given Lord Ralston's pedigree, wealth and position, he has yet to face any repercussions from this work. However, plenty of rumours and whispers suggest that such repercussions are not far.

3. Chapel of St Caspar-on-the-Hill (frescos, sculptures, stain-glass and mosaics) Malcolm Hope (architect and mathematician, Fellow of the Imperial Geographic Society)
A decade ago Malcolm Hope, one of the most influential Fellows of the Imperial Geographic Society, and perhaps the best regarded and most famous architect in the city, was contracted to rebuild the historic Chapel of St Caspar-on-the-Hill after a fire destroyed the ancient structure. Ten years later, hope unveiled the interior of the rebuilt chapel shocking almost all who saw it. The new frescos, sculptures, mosaics and glass told the well known story of the creation of the world and the rise of the saints. However, the imagery Hope used has been deemed blasphemous in the extreme. In his frescos he suggests that Man invented the Saints for his own puropses. He depicts the early Saints as Ferals, and clearly maps out a relationship between ancenstor worship and the Saintly Faith. Every single scene is a rewriting of accepted history removing the layers of religious dogma, and leaving only the raw interpretation of the Humanist historical truth. Although he remains a powerful and influential figure in the city, and he continues to be a key Fellow within the Society, he has recently been imprisoned "for his own safety" while the church investigates the numerous complaints regarding St Caspar's Chapel. It is rumoured that he is to be charged with defrauding his patrons and breaching his contract (as those who donated the money for the rebuilding of the chapel are not at all happy with the finished results, and have testified that what Hope delivered was not what they had agreed upon in the contract) rather than with heresy or blasphemy. It is believed that to try Hope in the Eccumenical Courts would result in an enormously sensationalist trial, given his fame and notoriety, that would only bring the ideas of the Humanist movement further out into the open for the general public to hear. A trial of such nature in the Eccumenical Courts would necessarily result in putting the Humanist movement on trial for all to see. It is thought that neither the government nor the church want to see that happen yet. Therefore, trying Hope in the Civil Court over a breach of contract would deflect much of the attention and minimise the potential damage.
4. The Lives of the Most Blesséd Imperial Saints* Sister Agatha of Maxton (nun of St Gratus)
*heavily editted and published by Lord's University press under the direction of Dr Archibald Beaumont (Dean of the Cathedral of St Avitus)
The original version of this book, written by an aged and cloisterd nun was considered to be a manuscript of pure blasphemy. Sister Agatha had claimed that in a sequence of dreams she was shown the true origins of the Saintly faith, and had observed the birth and lives of the major Saints in the Republic's history. All this Sister Agatha dutifully recorded in meticulous detail over a period of nearly eight years. The text, as shown to her Matron left most who read it aghast. Rumour has it that Sister Agatha's Lives of the Saints had it been allowed to be published, would've turned the entire Saintly Faith on its head. Before it could be published however, the text was delivered to Dr Archibald Beaumont, Dean of St Avitus, whom immediately ordered all who had read the manuscript, or come in contact with the text imprisoned for life. Or so the rumour goes. The story of the unseen text ran like wildfire through eccumenical and academic circles, fuelling thoughts of consipracy and worse. So damaging was the gossip and misinformation surrounding Sister Agatha's manuscript, that Dr Beaumont ordered its wide publication and dissemination. The resulting text was a huge dissapointment for all. What it contained was simply a series of

abridged biographies that did not deviate from the accepted church dogma by even a word. In this manner Dr Beaumont put an end to the controversy, despite it being well known that the published text was heavily editted and altered by the church. Rumours persist however, and it is believed that a copy of the original text was made by Sister Agatha before being presented to the cathedral. It is comon practice for two copies of any text to be made when created at a monastery or convent: one for the cathedral and a second to remain behind in the Order's own library. Curiously, the convent of St Gratus denies that any second copy exists, and Sister Agatha died before it could be confirmed if only one manuscript was produced. It is believed that this second copy did exist, and that it has either been hidden by the nuns of St Gratus or, as some rumours suggest, it has been stolen from the convent's library and will surface one day. In the meantime, forgeries exist in the hundreds, and plenty of mountebankes make a fine living with a printing press and a leather bound book of gibberish purporting to be The Original Lives of the Saints.

