Buildings In The City of Avitus
Cathedral of St. Avitus
Check.
The Blue Palace (what was this building again)
Check. This is the official residence of the Scion when he is in Avitus. Since he spends most of his time in The Valdenwail outside of the city, I imagine this place probably houses all the siblings, cousins, and assorted relatives and hangers-on that mooch off the Scion.
I called this place "The Blue Palace" because I envisioned it as having decorations and accents made from an exotic blue marble. The source of this blue marble was a long lost colony somewhere, so it is extremely rare and unique.
This place should be big, but not austentacious. Rather, it's a palace that was built a long time ago, and seems a bit modest, in size but not in artisanship, when compared to more recent buildings.
Cathedral of St. Severinius
Check. Although, I had called this the Palace of St Severinius. Rather than be a cathedral proper, this is an old monastery that was torn down or augmented with additions and annexes and so on and eventually grew to become this enormous building full of apartments to house all the visiting dignitaries and their staffs.
The place should be an eye-sore, with perpetual motions being brought forth to tear it down and replace it with something else. However, inevitably, someone points out that it will cost much more money to demolish and rebuild, than just to renovate, so a new addition or a new ghastly tower ends up getting added on instead.
Lord's University
Check. I know you've got a fair bit of work done on this place already, but I would suggest making it follow the British system of colleges (like U of T) for added flavour. You can have Lord's College (a secular college started by the government), Wembley College (started by the noble Wembley family), St Ignatius College (started by the canon of St Ignatius), etc. There should be a bit of rivalry and scorn between colleges.
Another suggestion is to have a second university in the city. One that is much

smaller, poorer and newer, started specifically by the secular government to provide a free education to the masses. While you have to be rather wealthy to pay the tuition to attend Lord's, the state will pay for you to go to Civic University if you agree to a term of servitude to the city upon graduation. I'm just kind of thinking out loud about this here, so don't take it as an absolute suggestion.
-observatory
Check. There should be a brand new (or even currently underconstruction) secondary observatory outside of the city, but within spitting distance of the place. An observatory is a cool place, period. I like the idea that the Imperial Astronomical Society (or whoever) is building (or has built) a brand new, modern observatory in a better location outside of the city. A few adventures can spring from this.
-university gardens
Check.
-university tree nursery
Check.
There's a few other university buildings I'd add. First, there should be a main building of sorts. A place like UC, where the whole mess started. There should be a nice big common lawn where sporting activities and competitions take place. A Convocation Hall type auditorium would be neat too. And a Hart House type social-club building would also be spiff.
Custom House
Check. And bang on. This should be a big building near the waterfront. Probably the most corrupt place in town.
Hospital of St. Gratus
Lord's Hospital
Lord's Asylum
Triple check.
Bank of Avitus

Check. So... is this the one and only bank, or are this like a central bank, and there are a bunch of smaller merchant banks around? I imagine it wouldn't take much for a bunch of rich loan-sharks to band together and call themselves The Fleet Bank or something, and thus legitimise their business practice, eh?
Imperial Mint
Check. Although, from what I've been reading, this is a messy, complicated business. Even in the 18th century, London and much of England depended exclusively on foreign coins (typically Spanish). Counterfeiting and shaving was such a large problem that it was difficult to put any sort of trust in the coins in your pocket. Most people carried a scale around with them and still did transactions based on weight.
This, to me, honestly, is too complicated for a D&D game. We should invest our currency with a considerable amount of trust. Not too difficult, since we are pretty much the only power going. That is, there's no place for foreign coins to really come into the picture. But we shouldn't bog down things too much on micromanagement of coins. I'd love to introduce letters of credit and paper money and things of this nature, as well as dubiousness for large transactions, but, for the most part, if a mug of ale costs 2 pennies, the PC's should feel confident enough to hand over 2 pennies without having to bring out the scales and weigh them, and then have the bartender bring out his scales and weigh them, and then have a 3rd party bring out his scales and weigh them. It's just 2 pennies. Large transactions, and anything involving a gold coin, should be another story. But we'll talk about currency in detail later.
The Dock Yards -Ship Builders
Check. Here's another thing I want to add:
The Imperial Fleet
This is just the remnants of the once proud navy that sailed the seas and colonized much of the world. The Fleet now has virtually nothing at all to do with any military or exploration ventures. The Fleet, which has its headquarters in a building on the river close to the Customs House, gets paid a quarterly stipend to patrol the city's waterways for various different things (smugglers, small time pirates, monsters, floating dead bodies, etc). The Fleet, in turn, subcontracts this work out to the lowest bidder, at a tidy profit. Additionally, the Fleet serves as a courthouse and maintains a jail and a hospital. Originally the courthouse, jail and hospital were intended for sailors and captured pirates, but these days, anyone

can have the privilege of being tried and imprisoned by the Fleet.
Why? Good question.
In Avitus, when you commit a crime, you have three choices. One, you can be tried by the secular courts run, more or less, by the secular government. Two, if you have a connection to the church, you can plead your rights and be tried by a court of your peers in the church. Three, maritime crimes, and crimes committed outside of the city's jurisdiction, or in the colonies, are traditionally tried by the officers of the Imperial Navy. The Fleet is, more or less, a corrupt, moneymaking enterprise these days. If you have committed a crime for which you will surely hang if tried in the secular courts, and you have no recourse to the ecclesiastical courts, but you have money, you can pay an officer of the Fleet to make you an acting midshipman in the navy, and thus bring you under the jurisdiction of the Fleet's courts. Get it? So once you are an acting midshipman in the Imperial Navy, you can be tried by officers of the Fleet, who are, more often than not, quite willing to be lenient when it comes to verdicts if the right price is met.
Should you be convicted by the Fleet anyway (a rare event, and only really happens when it is clearly obvious the defendant is heinously guilty, or when the defendant is unable to pay the right fee) , it is unheard of to get the death penalty. Most likely it is a sentence of extended servitude aboard a Naval vessel, as, or so the Navy always claimed, there is no sense in throwing away an able-bodied man in times of war.
Plus, a sailor who has been convicted of a crime and sentenced to servitude, has to remit the entirety of his naval pay to his recruitment officer. If he is sentenced to death, a small compensation payment is made to the sailor's surviving family, Thus, it is in the best interest of the recruitment officers of the Fleet to keep their convicted criminals alive and in servitude aboard a naval vessel.
However, since the Fleet no longer has any active vessels, you are most likely to spend your time in the Fleet's barracks (jail), until a vessel gets built, commissioned, and placed on active duty. If you have money, and you probably do if you're being tried by the Fleet instead of the civic courts, then you can pay to serve out your time waiting for this vessel to be built at your own home under house arrest. If you pay a bit more, you can even be given a day-pass out of your house arrest. And if you pay even more still, you can get a perpetual day-pass that allows you to come and go as you please from your home during your house arrest.
It is a system the nobles and wealthy middle class are keen to maintain. And they also make sure that no naval vessel ever gets built and placed under authority of the Fleet, lest a good number of the city's elite be forced to carry out their appointed duties.

The Fleet needs a bit more refinement than from what I have included above. They also have their hands in many different other cookie jars. For example, their hospital would originally have been set up to treat sailors wounded in war. However, these days, it deals exclusively as a maternity hospital for unwed mothers and unwanted children. The Fleet's Hospital raises these children up to a certain age, and then sells them on for workhouses or servitude. If a child cannot be sold off by the time he or she is 4 or 5, they get turned out into the street.
I was also thinking of giving the Fleet other authorities, such as being taxcollectors, or running the city's water utility. I want the Fleet to be powerful enough to be able to maintain its corrupt activities and prove to be a bit of a thorn in the side of the PC's (or a boon if they need to get out of having to go to jail) but small and inconsequential enough to not be considered a true power player in the city.
Observatory of St. Ignatius
Check. Hmm... maybe this is the observatory being built in the outskirts of town, as I mentioned above?
Lots of Cemeteries -St.Avitus' Field of Interment
Check. Lots of them, but small ones.
Lots of Gardens -Lord's Gardens
Check. Parks too.
A note on church buildings: a Cathedral is not a large building. A Cathedral, properly, is any church where a bishop conducts his services. So, a cathedral can be a one room chapel, or it can be an enormous complex of palaces. In our world, a Cathedral should refer to the seat of the individual Prelate of a saint. This may be a hovel made of wood in the northern wilderness, or the enormous dome of the Cathedral of Saint Avitus in the city.
I think there would be a tons of cathedrals in Avitus, though only a dozen or so would be as big as what we would consider them to be in our world. Most would be the size of large churches, and some, no more than chapels in a building.

