Regional Governments of the `Empire'
Republic of Waldheim
This region includes the City of Waldheim (Avitus) and immediate environs out to a radius of about 50 miles. The City dominates this polity, of course, but several smaller towns surrounding the City are under it's immediate protection and rule. The country side around the City is very fertile, being made up mostly of the converging river valleys of the Wen and Nith rivers. The area around the City is the most civilized, safest land on the continent. In fact, nobles from the City are known to travel abroad in order to hunt something more exciting than the struggling deer and fox populations of their country estates close to the City.
Population: About 200,000 in the City itself. Another 40,000 in the surrounding area.
Government: A secular, elected council of 11 men and women who then appoint a mayor.
Lysander (Independent City State)
This region includes the City of Lysander and an area about 75 miles in radius around it. The City is found at an ancient nexus; it is close to the Sea of Sorrow, which is an inland sea that provides access to the West; it is on the northern shore of the Great Ocean (rename?), and it sits on the ancient trade road, which once connected the Empire with the West. This City has been the source of most of the global exchanges that have happened in the last 1000 years, limited though they might be now. It is an ancient city, with some very strange architecture that hearkens back to times of great population movements; the Colonization and the Crusades. Buildings of tremendous size and strange shapes and odd materials are found all throughout this ancient City.
This City has been ruled by the Council of War for over 1500 years. The Council is made up, currently, of the Prelate of St. Dunstan, The Prelate of St. Ulric, the Arch Bishop of St. Severinius' Lysander, The Arch Bishop of St. Sebalds' Lysander, and the Bishop of St. Abaddons' Lysander. This City is ruled by the Council, but the Council is, in large part, ruled by the Primus Deus Fidelis, which answers to the Scion of St. Avitus. As such, politics in this City is a slow and complicated matter that never makes any sense to the locals. Locals here do not have the sense of rights and freedoms as they do in Waldheim. Here, they are subjects that are ruled, and punishments are harsh and swift. That being said, this is a very peaceful City, with a very ecclesiastically heavy demographic. About 1 in 7 people in this City is a member of the clergy, or a fighting order of one of the many Canons that fill this City.
Population: About 95,000 in the City, about 24,000 more in the country side.
Government: Ecclesiastic council of 5 officials from the `Crusading' Canons.

Freehold of Havilah
Also called the Great Northern City, Havilah is found near the mouth of the River Wen, in lands to the north and west that border on the Kellish and Feral kingdoms. This is a newer City, being less than 500 years old, and only recently experiencing a large population boom. This is a rough City where it is not uncommon to find bodies in the streets when the sun comes up, and Kells, half Ferals and other foreigners about, making no attempts to hide their ancestry. This polity includes only the City itself. It does not pretend to rule, or especially, to protect the numerous villages and few small towns nearby.
Havilah is nominally ruled by an elected official called `Chancellor'. The election of this official is about the furthest thing from a true democracy, however. The Charter for the City provides for a very sophisticated democratic process, but this has been subverted by the Guilds of the City, which actually rule the place. The Guilds influence the vote by any means necessary, and prefer overt violence and murder to anything more subtle.
The Canons of this City have lost ground ever since the Revolution. There are a few large churches and cathedrals, but most are in disrepair, and many have been purchased by guilds and merchants and converted for their purposes. There is one exception to this trend; the Cathedral of St. Ulric here is well appointed, large, and powerful. The Bishop of St. Ulrics' Havilah is a very powerful man who most of the Guilds owe favours to.
It is important to note that the New Finance started in this remote place. History records that logging and mining companies were paying their men with paper notes as early as 1388, and that by 1530, men were buying stocks in some mines and forestry endeavours. It is here that the following of Ulric as a means to economic conquest was begun. Of course, this is more apparent in Waldheim in the present day, but it is still conspicuous here.
Population: 76,000.
Government: Secular official called "Chancellor", though actually ruled by Guilds.
Imperial Ecclesiarchy of Valdenwail
This is a polity that is dominated by the old, sprawling and decaying castle of Valdenwail. The polity extends about 40 miles around the castle. This is an ancient and desolate place that has not been developed for over 1000 years. There are 2 small villages of less than 200 people each (farming communities that provide for the castle), and a few nomadic shepherds as well. The polity is protected by the mysterious Knights of the Scion (rename?); speechless men upon soundless steeds who wear plate armour that is unmistakably ancient. These men roam the region alone, dispatching the few creatures and Ferals that are foolish enough to wander into the region. The region is bordered by a very tangled, thick, old and decrepit forest which is inhabited by nothing.

In the middle of the forest is a thick and thorny hedge some 100-200 feet thick. A single road leads out of the region, and it sees very little traffic in a year. It is watched closely by the Knights (can we come up with a cooler name than this?), however, who do not abide trespassers, and who ask no questions.
At the heart of the polity is Valdenwail itself. This castle was once a small City, but it has, over the countless centuries, been completely closed in by walls and roofs, and is now a convoluted, sprawling castle. Valdenwail is the home of the Scion and his odd family.
Population: Perhaps 1000 total, including the 500 or so peasants that live in the countryside.
Government: Absolute Monarchy of the descendants of Saint Avitus.
Kingdom of Mantlethorn
Kingdom of Heirgallad
Republic of Isenveld
Republic of Dunstanmoore
Bishopric of St. Ignatius
Bishopric of St. Mairin
Dominion of St. Lucas
Wellenlund
Gablelund
Patrilund

